# Nouveau-VAE for Anatomical Shape Encoding

## Table of Contents

- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Repository Structure](#repository-structure)
- [Usage Guide](#usage-guide)
    - [TensorBoard](#tensorboard)

## Quick Start

1. Clone this repository.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/j-freddy/nvae-shape-encoding.git
```

2. Create virtual environment with Python 3.10+. Python 3.11.8 is recommended.

```sh
# Go inside repo
cd nvae-shape-encoding
# Check Python 3.10+ is being used
python --version
# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
# Activate virtual environment
source venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies.

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

If everything has been set up correctly, the commands below should work.
```sh
# View data samples
python -m utils.data_viewer --dataset acdc
# Train a VAE model with good configurations (~10 minutes)
python -m arch.vae.train \
    --epochs 50 \
    --latent_dim 8 \
    --beta 0.1 \
    --gamma 1000 \
    --loss_reg info_vae \
    --augment
# Train a NVAE model with good configurations (~80 minutes)
python -m arch.nvae.train \
    --epochs 100 \
    --projected_channels 16 \
    --warmup_steps 5350 \
    --beta0 5120000 \
    --beta1 1280000 \
    --beta2 3200000
# Test (~5 minutes)
# A typical checkpoint path is:
# logs/vae_acdc/version_0/checkpoints/epoch=45-step=4922.ckpt
python -m arch.vae.test --model_path path/to/vae/checkpoint.ckpt --augment
python -m arch.nvae.test --model_path path/to/nvae/checkpoint.ckpt
```

## Repository Structure

The following briefly summarises the repo contents.

- `analysis/` - Main evaluation metrics are calculated within the Lightning test
  step, e.g. in `arch/nvae/nvae.py`. This subdirectory contains additional scripts
  for closer inspection of the trained models, e.g. latent traversals. These
  scripts are often presented as Jupyter notebooks to allow easy configuration
  and interaction.
- `arch/`
    - `vae/` - Variational Autoencoder (VAE) framework. The train and test entry
      points are `train.py` and `test.py`.
    - `nvae/` - Nouveau-VAE (NVAE) implementation. The train and test entry
      points are `train.py` and `test.py`.
- `data_modules/` - Lightning DataModule classes. The main module is
  `ACDCMaskDataModule` in `acdc.py`, with the file also containing preprocessing
  scripts.
- `datasets/` - Custom Torch datasets. Augmentation pipelines are implemented
  here and run during train time.
- `plot/` - Basic plots can be found in [TensorBoard](#tensorboard). This
  subdirectory contains scripts for additional plots that are not generated by
  TensorBoard, e.g. aggregate scatter plots of hyperparameter tuning results.
- `scripts/` - Shell scripts. Mostly for running hyperparameter tuning on the
  GPU cluster.
- `utils/` - Utility functions and scripts such as data viewer and scraping data
  off of TensorBoard logs.

Running programs can generate the following subdirectories.

- `data/` - Downloaded datasets and preprocessed dataset checkpoints.
- `logs/` - TensorBoard logs and model checkpoints. Also contains summary
  statistics generated from the TensorBoard scraper.

## Usage Guide

All entry points should be run as modules from the root directory. For example,
`python -m arch.nvae.train`, not `python arch/nvae/train.py`.

### TensorBoard

```sh
tensorboard --logdir logs/vae_acdc
tensorboard --logdir logs/nvae_acdc
```

<!-- TODO -->

<!-- ## Credits -->
